NIP-07
======

Reputation Scheme
-----------------

`draft` `optional` `author:fiatjaf` `author:arcbtc`

A special event with kind `6`, meaning "rating". It is supposed to have the following attributes:

**`tags`** MUST contain an entry identifying the profile being rated, in the form `["p", "<pubkey, as a hex string>"]`.

**`content`** MUST be a JSON object serialized as a string with the desired categories and a rating for each. The category can be any string, the rating must be a number between 0 and 100.

For example, if someone wants to say their dentist, represented by their public key "abcdef", is very good as a dentist, can't attest to their full honesty and they're don't drive very well, they would have something like

```json
{
  ...
  "kind": 6,
  "tags": [["p", "abcdef"]],
  "content": "{\"honest\": 77, \"driver\": 25, \"dentist\": 95}",
  ...
}
```

These ratings can be used by anyone who can get their hands on it. For example, an app that uses Nostr to coordinate car ride sharing could use just the `"driver"` rating and nothing else, but it could also use the `"honest"` value.

An app could choose to prompt users to manually select "friends" from whom they will see ratings of third parties; or they could trust some relay to prevent sybil reputation attacks (i.e., trust that a relay won't allow someone to create a million good ratings of themselves, for example, and then just count the ratings that are all supposed to come from real people); finally, apps could also implement automatic webs-of-trust if they, for example, decide that the rating "judge" will be considered as a factor for hopping between users. More detailed examples below:

### Web-of-trust example

- Carol rates Derek as `honest: 90`.
- Alice wants to purchase a thing online from Derek.
- Alice doesn't know Derek and also doesn't know Carol, therefore Alice cannot make a decision to trust Derek based on anything.
- However Bob knows Carol and Bob thinks Carol wouldn't go out giving random ratings to people online, therefore Bob publishes a rating for Carol: `judge: 95`.
- Alice thinks that Bob is also a reasonable person in the matter of judging others on the internet, so Alice also rates Bob with `judge: 95`.
- Alice's app fetches all these rating events on the background and builds a local web-of-trust for her. So when Alice browses Derek's profile she sees `honest: 90` with an implied trustworthiness of `95% * 95% = 90%` and now she can decide to trust Derek based on that.
