NIP-15
======

Witness
-------

`draft` `optional` `author:cameri`

Adds new event kinds meaning "witness". These are defined as having knowledge or claiming to have knowledge about a set of resources.
Such knowledge or claim of knowledge MAY be factual.

**`tags`** MUST contain one or more entries identifying the resource(s), in the form `["r", "<URI, as string>"]`.

**`content`** MUST be stringified JSON object adhering to the respective schema in [Schemas](#schemas).

If a witness wants to attest that an email address is defunct, and that new mails should be sent to a different address:

```json
{
  "kind": 10,
  "content": "{\"reason\": \"defunct\", \"resource\": \"mailto:contact@new-domain.com\"}",
  "tags": [
    ["r", "mailto:contact@domain.com"]
  ]
}
```

For example, if someone wants to indicate they've starred a website they would send something like:

```json
{
  "kind": 7,
  "content": "",
  "tags": [
    ["r", "https://voskuil.org/cryptoeconomics/"]
  ]
}
```

For example, if someone wants to indicate they have blocked a phone number they would send something like:

```json
{
  "kind": 8,
  "content": "{\"reason\": \"silent caller\"}",
  "tags": [
    ["r", "https://voskuil.org/cryptoeconomics/"]
  ]
}
```

If someone wants to dislike a web page:

```json
{
  "kind": 9,
  "content": "{\"attitude\": \"dislike\"}",
  "tags": [
    ["r", "https://domain.com/questionable-content.html"]
  ]
}
```

If someone wants to organize/categorize a magnet link:

```json
{
  "kind": 11,
  "content": "{\"namespace\": \"files\", \"path\": [\"music\", \"by-year\", \"2000\"] }",
  "tags": [
    ["r", "magnet:?xt=urn:btih:c12fe1c06bba254a9dc9f519b335aa7c1367a88"]
   ]
}
```

These attestations can be used by anyone who can get their hands on them. For example, a Phone app that uses Nostr
may collect details on Phone numbers and alert the user if it finds `content` with `{\"block\": true, \"reason\": \"scammer\"}`.
A Browser extension that uses Nostr may request a relay for likes/dislikes for a website that the user is browsing.
A Map app that uses Nostr may request for all the knowledge at a geographic point of interest.

## Schemas

| kind | name                     | schema |
|------|--------------------------|--------|
| 7    | star resource            | `{ "type": "string",  "maxLength": 0 }` |
| 8    | block resource           | `{ "type": "object", "properties": { "reason": { "type": "string" } } }` |
| 9    | sentiment                | `{ "type": "object", "properties": { "attitude": { "enum": ["like", "dislike", "undecided"] }, "modifier": { "enum": ["slighly", "strongly"] } }, required: ["attitude"] }` |
| 10   | recommend resource       | `{ "type": "object", "properties": { "resource": { type: "string" }, "reason": { "type": "string" } }, "required": ["resource"] }` |
| 11   | categorize resource      | `{ "type": "object", "properties": { "path": { "type": "array", items: { type: "string" } }, "namespace": { "type": "string" } }, "required": ["path"] }` |

Additional kinds should be added to the previous table.

## Relays

A relay MAY keep the most recent attestation for a given resource.

A relay may receive a request for witness events as per [NIP-12](https://github.com/fiatjaf/nostr/blob/master/nips/12.md).

```
{
  "kinds": [7, 9],
  "#r": <a list of URIs that are referenced in an "r" tag>
}
```

Upon receiving such request, the relay MUST query its internal database and return the events that match the filter and send again all future events it receives to that same websocket until the websocket is closed.

A relay receiving a request to search for tag `"r"` MUST match the URIs exactly or use a better matching algorithm for the given URIs (e.g. geolocating).

## Notes

### Mentions

NIP-08 is extended to support mentioning URIs in `r` tags. Clients MUST render URIs from `r` tags as-is, or render a different representation of the URI so long as the original plain-text version of the URI is made available to the user.

### Decentralized knowledge

A client can use this NIP to search for knowledge about any resource (e.g. geographic location, torrent, document).

A user may be able to type a valid URI on a search box and the client would recognize that and do the proper queries to the relay to obtain all the knowledge about that resource.

### User Discovery

A client can use this to search for users who have starred a website, followed a profile, pledged for a cause, add a book to a bookshelf, etc., so long as the subject can be represented by an URI.

### Reasoning for using URIs instead of URLs

URLs are a subset of URIs and therefore restricts the domain of possible resources that can be witnessed. URLs imply availability of the resource which is NOT required.
